Add multitask and few-shot learning sections (#99)
jaybee84/ml-in-rd: content/05.prior-knowledge.md

Taken together, DeepProfile [@doi:10.1101/278739] and MultiPLIER [@doi:10.1016/j.cels.2019.04.003] suggest transfer learning can be beneficial for studying rare diseases. 
In the natural images field, researchers have demonstrated that the transferability of features depends on relatedness of tasks [@arxiv:1411.1792].
The limits of transfer learning for and the concept of relatedness in high-dimensional biomedical data assaying rare diseases are open research questions.
In the authors' opinion, selecting an appropriate model for a given task and evaluations that are well-aligned with a research goal are crucial for applying these approaches in rare diseases.

##### Multitask and few-shot learning
 
Where transfer learning can be supervised or unsupervised, the related approaches multitask and few-shot learning are forms of supervised learning that generally rely on deep neural networks.

> Multitask learning is an approach where classifiers are learned for _related tasks_ at the same time using a shared representation [@doi:10.1023/A:1007379606734].

Reviewer: A sentence here to describe what is meant by a "task" would be very helpful here.

Author: I tacked something on to the end of this sentence in https://github.com/jaybee84/ml-in-rd/pull/99/commits/a2bd1a613626cd9ff0afdce6609b5bca3ee7e3e2.

> Few-shot learning is the generalization of a model trained on related data and tasks to a new task with limited labeled data (e.g., the detection of a patient with a rare disease from a low number of examples of that rare disease). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Few-shot learning is the generalization of a model trained on related tasks to a new task with limited labeled data (e.g., the detection of a patient with a rare disease from a low number of examples of that rare disease). 
```

> As with transfer learning, multitask and few-shot learning can be applied in situations where there are insufficient data for a given condition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> Like rare disease research, drug discovery suffers from a relatively small amount of data for a given task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> We highlight a few applications of multitask or few-shot learning in the drug discovery space, in addition to rare disease or condition research, to illustrate key takeaways.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Multitask neural networks that predict multiple tasks simultaneously are generally thought to improve performance over models that make predictions for a single task by learning a shared representation and effectively being exposed to more training data than the single task case [@doi:10.1023/A:1007379606734; @arxiv:1606.08793].

> Kearnes, Goldman, and Pande set out to examine the effects of dataset size and task relatedness on multitask learning performance improvements ("multitask effect") in an industrial drug discovery setting [@arxiv:1606.08793].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kearnes, Goldman, and Pande set out to examine the effects of dataset size and task relatedness on multitask learning performance improvements ("multitask effect") in drug discovery (where data is also sparse similar to rare disease) [@arxiv:1606.08793].
```

The authors found that the multitask performance gains were highly dataset-specific: smaller datasets tended to benefit most from multitask learning and the addition of more training data did not guarantee improved performance for multitask models.
In predicting phenotypes from EHR data, Ding et al. demonstrated that multitask neural networks outperformed single-task networks for predicting complex rare phenotypes but not common phenotypes [@arxiv:1808.03331].
Liu et al. developed a method to train long short-term memory networks, a type of recurrent neural network, to predict mortality in rare diseases using EHR data as input [@arxiv:2004.05318v2].
Their method, Ada-SiT (Adaptation to Similar Tasks), was specifically designed for many tasks with insufficient data and allowed for task similarity to be measured during training.

> Few-shot learning, also referred to as one-shot learning, relies on using prior knowledge to generalize to new prediction tasks where there are a low number of examples [@arxiv:1904.05046v3], where a distance metric is learned from input data and used to compare new examples for prediction [@doi:10.1021/acscentsci.6b00367].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the other hand, Few-shot learning or one-shot learning relies on using prior knowledge to generalize to new prediction tasks where there are a low number of examples [@arxiv:1904.05046v3], where a distance metric is learned from input data and used to compare new examples for prediction [@doi:10.1021/acscentsci.6b00367].
```

> Altae-Tran et al. developed a method for predicting small molecule activity that learned a meaningful distance over compounds [@doi:10.1021/acscentsci.6b00367].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Altae-Tran et al. developed a method for predicting small molecule activity that learned a meaningful distance metric over the properties of various compounds [@doi:10.1021/acscentsci.6b00367].
```

> However, the authors results suggested underperformance of one-shot learning methods relative to baseline random forest models when structural similarity could not be exploited and did not show support for generalization of models trained on very different contexts from the target task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, the authors' results suggested underperformance of one-shot learning methods relative to baseline random forest models when structural similarity could not be exploited and did not show support for generalization of models trained on very different contexts from the target task.
```

Quellec et al. presented a few-shot learning approach for detecting rare pathologies in fundus photographs [@arxiv:1907.09449v3].

> The authors train a convolutional neural network (CNN) to predict common pathologies, which tends to cluster similar conditions in feature space; the learned feature space is used to train a probabilistic model for each rare pathology.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The authors trained a convolutional neural network (CNN) to predict common pathologies, which tended to cluster similar conditions in feature space. 
The learned feature space was then used to train a probabilistic model for each rare pathology.
```

> This approach outperformed multitask learning, which suggests few-shot learning provides some advantages when training to predict common conditions simultaneously results in a loss of performance [@arxiv:1907.09449v3].  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This approach outperformed multitask learning, which suggests few-shot learning provides some advantages when training to predict common conditions, but simultaneously results in a loss of performance [@arxiv:1907.09449v3].  
```

Author: Reworded this sentence in https://github.com/jaybee84/ml-in-rd/pull/99/commits/522d8a85e0170b4cefeeb3d07ddd41aea83a177d.

> Multitask and few-shot learning are comprised of a variety of approaches and architectures that are beyond this scope of this work.

Reviewer: adding a few names and refs of the approaches/architectures here without going into details can help the audience find and explore the details if they want.

Author: Opted to add a few citations for survey articles in https://github.com/jaybee84/ml-in-rd/pull/99/commits/33c9f2c3bfca8a26d4aab5ece5abe2febbabc894, but am happy to revisit during one of the rounds of editing!
